README.md, before:

# Arcus - Web API
[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/codit/Arcus/_apis/build/status/Commit%20builds/CI%20-%20Arcus.WebApi?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/codit/Arcus/_build/latest?definitionId=733&branchName=master)
[![NuGet Badge](https://buildstats.info/nuget/Arcus.WebApi.All?includePreReleases=true)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Arcus.WebApi.All/)

Web API development in a breeze.

![Arcus](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arcus-azure/arcus/master/media/arcus.png)

# Installation
Soon you will be able to install it via NuGet:

```shell
PM > Install-Package Arcus.WebApi.All
```

# Documentation
All documentation can be found on [here](https://webapi.arcus-azure.net/).

# License Information
This is licensed under The MIT License (MIT). Which means that you can use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the web application. But you always need to state that Codit is the original author of this web application.

Read the full license [here](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.webapi/blob/master/LICENSE).

Commit message:

Provide section on Arcus customers

README.md, after:

# Arcus - Web API
[![Build Status](https://dev.azure.com/codit/Arcus/_apis/build/status/Commit%20builds/CI%20-%20Arcus.WebApi?branchName=master)](https://dev.azure.com/codit/Arcus/_build/latest?definitionId=733&branchName=master)
[![NuGet Badge](https://buildstats.info/nuget/Arcus.WebApi.All?includePreReleases=true)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Arcus.WebApi.All/)

Web API development in a breeze.

![Arcus](https://raw.githubusercontent.com/arcus-azure/arcus/master/media/arcus.png)

# Installation
Soon you will be able to install it via NuGet:

```shell
PM > Install-Package Arcus.WebApi.All
```

# Documentation
All documentation can be found on [here](https://webapi.arcus-azure.net/).

# Customers
Are you an Arcus user? Let us know and [get listed](https://bit.ly/become-a-listed-arcus-user)!

# License Information
This is licensed under The MIT License (MIT). Which means that you can use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the web application. But you always need to state that Codit is the original author of this web application.

Read the full license [here](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.webapi/blob/master/LICENSE).
