docs/index.md, before:

---
title: "Home"
layout: default
permalink: /
redirect_from:
 - /index.html
---

[![NuGet Badge](https://buildstats.info/nuget/Arcus.WebApi.All?includePreReleases=true)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Arcus.WebApi.All/)

# Installation

The Arcus.WebApi library can be installed via NuGet.

To install all Arcus.WebApi packages:

```shell
PM > Install-Package Arcus.WebApi.All
```

To install the Arcus.WebApi.Logging package:

```shell
PM > Install-Package Arcus.WebApi.Logging
```

# Features

## Arcus.WebApi.Security

The `Arcus.WebApi.Security` package contains functionality to easily add security capabilities to an API.

- [Shared access key authentication](features/auth/shared-access-key.md)
- [Certificate authentication](features/auth/certificate.md)

## Arcus.WebApi.Logging

The `Arcus.WebApi.Logging` package contains functionality that can be incorporated in API projects to easily add logging capabilities to an API project.

- [Logging unhandled exceptions](features/logging.md)

# License
This is licensed under The MIT License (MIT). Which means that you can use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the web application. But you always need to state that Codit is the original author of this web application.

*[Full license here](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.webapi/blob/master/LICENSE)*

Commit message:

Adding Arcus.WebApi.OpenApi.Extensions project (#46)
* Add Arcus.WebApi.OpenApi.Extensions project

* Add OAuthAuthorizeOperationFilter

* Added packaging tags

* Adding documentation on arcus.openapi.extensions

Providing documentation on usage of the OAuthAuthorizeOperationFilter class

* Update docs/features/openapi.securitydefinitions.md

Co-Authored-By: Tom Kerkhove <kerkhove.tom@gmail.com>

* Fixed type-name in documentation

* Update docs/features/openapi.securitydefinitions.md

Co-Authored-By: Tom Kerkhove <kerkhove.tom@gmail.com>

* Update docs/index.md

Co-Authored-By: Tom Kerkhove <kerkhove.tom@gmail.com>

* Update docs/index.md

Co-Authored-By: Tom Kerkhove <kerkhove.tom@gmail.com>

* Renamed openapi.securitydefinitions.md to openapi-securitydefinitions.md

Renaming this file is required to be in-sync with the Markdown contents
of the index.md file, otherwise we would have broken links.

* Provide XML comments on OAuthAuthorizeOperationFilter.Apply

* XML comments on OAuthAuthorizeOperationFilter ctor

* Add validation of constructor arguments in OAuthAuthorizeOperationFilter

* Adhere to defensive programming techniques

Add an extra check to avoid null-reference exceptions when referencing the DeclaringType of a method.

* Update openapi.extensions documentation to adhere to Arcus guidelines

* Fixed documentation on OAuthAuthorizeOperationFilter

docs/index.md, after:

---
title: "Home"
layout: default
permalink: /
redirect_from:
 - /index.html
---

[![NuGet Badge](https://buildstats.info/nuget/Arcus.WebApi.All?includePreReleases=true)](https://www.nuget.org/packages/Arcus.WebApi.All/)

# Installation

The Arcus.WebApi library can be installed via NuGet.

To install all Arcus.WebApi packages:

```shell
PM > Install-Package Arcus.WebApi.All
```

To install the Arcus.WebApi.Logging package:

```shell
PM > Install-Package Arcus.WebApi.Logging
```

To install the Arcus.WebApi.OpenApi.Extensions package:

```shell
PM > Install-Package Arcus.WebApi.OpenApi.Extensions
```

# Features

## Arcus.WebApi.Security

The `Arcus.WebApi.Security` package contains functionality to easily add security capabilities to an API.

- [Shared access key authentication](features/auth/shared-access-key.md)
- [Certificate authentication](features/auth/certificate.md)

## Arcus.WebApi.Logging

The `Arcus.WebApi.Logging` package contains functionality that can be incorporated in API projects to easily add logging capabilities to an API project.

- [Logging unhandled exceptions](features/logging.md)

## OpenAPI Extensions

The `Arcus.WebApi.OpenApi.Extensions` package contains functionality that can be used to easily improve the Open API documentation of an API when making using of Swashbuckle.

- [Exposing security information in Swashbuckle documentation](features/openapi-securitydefinitions.md)

# License
This is licensed under The MIT License (MIT). Which means that you can use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the web application. But you always need to state that Codit is the original author of this web application.

*[Full license here](https://github.com/arcus-azure/arcus.webapi/blob/master/LICENSE)*
